//adding to make visible for commit
Kate Kendig kendig@ksu.edu
CIS200 Proj2notes
1/28/2026


1.
Think of a sample test case for your program that is different than the one given. 
Write out the different inputs, and then work through the driving time calculation 
by hand. Clearly state both your calculated speed in mph (using the speed factor) 
as well as your answer in driving days, hours, minutes, and seconds. 
How does that compare to your program's output?

Real:
Enter the distance in miles: 80
Enter your speed factor, where 0 is the slowest and 9 is the fastest: 7
Are you traveling round trip? (y/n) y
Enter max driving hours per day: 6
Total driving time for 160 miles at 72.50 mph: 0 days, 2 hours, 12 minutes, 24 seconds

My Program (it's the same):
Enter the distance in miles: 80
Enter your speed factor, where 0 is the slowest and 9 is the fastest: 7
Are you traveling round trip? (y/n) y
Enter max driving hours per day: 6
Total driving time for 160 miles at 72.50 mph: 0 days, 2 hours, 12 minutes, 24 seconds

2.
List at least 3 other test cases that cover different kinds of special cases 
that should be handled by your program. You don't need to work these out by hand,
but you should state what they are and what your program does in those cases.

I used the following code to error handle situations relating to the variable speedFactor
(which was the sole variable of concern with variable scope):

    if (speedFactor < 0 || speedFactor > 9) {
            System.out.println("Speed factor must be between 0 and 9.");
            if (speedFactor < 0){
                System.out.println("The speed factor should not be negative");
            }
            else {
                System.out.println("The speed factor should not be greater than 9.");
            }
            return;
        }
It handles cases where the value given is negative or greater than nine 
and prints the message accordingly before returning.

Case examples are -3, -1, & 11. Responses are "The speed factor should not be negative",
"The speed factor should not be negative", and "The speed factor should
 not be greater than 9" respectively.



3.
Describe an error you made when writing the program. How did you fix it?

One error that puzzled me for a while was input overflow from the scanner. 
It was storing a space in buffer without me realizing it and throwing an error in testing. 
It was difficult because the code was compiling, yet it couldn't run to completion. 
I went in and verified my work and logic in scanner. 
After that didn't work I went back to the textbook and read on the buffer space 
associated with the scanning of integers. I caught the error by adding an s.nextline(); .

I also had issues with typcasting in operations, but I resolved that easily. 

An issue I had to especially learn from was string comparisons for the y/n of round trips. 
I used .equals("") for this. 
//adding to make visible for commit